+++
title = "Getting Better at Stuff"
date = 2020-02-27T17:28:38-05:00
draft = false
description = ""
tags = ["post"]
categories = [
  "everything",
  "RPG",
  "TTRPG",
  "advancement",
]
+++

I really like the idea of our characters getting better at the stuff
they do, not better at the things we arbitrarily choose for them. The
science of getting better at stuff has been a big inspiration in my
life, but also for this mechanism. If you're interested, I'd recommend
the book Peak: Secrets from the New Science of Expertise by researcher
Anders Ericsson on the subject.

Ericsson's book is the inspiration for this advancement mechanic

"If you never push yourself beyond your comfort zone, you will never
improve" - Anders Ericsson, Peak

Advancement in Cast happens when your character does something just
beyond their ability. Out of their comfort zone, but not
impossible. This is modelled by advancing a characters ability when
they almost succeed at it but don't. When a player rolls for an
ability and is exactly one below the threshold for a success, they
mark that ability for advancement. Then whenever they get a restful
enough sleep, and have some threshold of marks for advancement in an
ability, the player clears all the marks and advances the ability by
one.

This means that the best strategy for advancing a skill or ability is
to attempt it at a level of difficulty and complexity just beyond
their current capability, which is what Ericsson's research shows is
the way we get better at stuff.

This has some other cool properties too!

As you advance a skill, it becomes less and less likely that your
rolls will be exactly one below the threshold so new skills will
advance quickly then slow down as you gain more and more experience.

It's *fast* and easy to keep track of, it doesn't interrupt play. Almost
pass? Mark experience. Marked enough experience when you get good
sleep? Advance it.

It's *satisfying*. The risk of failure is always there, but even when
you fail, you might advance

It encourages *good narrative*. You can't just go around being awesome
all the time, take no risks and still advance. Instead you have to
find opportunities in the narrative to push your character, to find
appropriate risks and take them!

It *discourages mini-maxing* by making a breadth of abilities more
feasible to get than a single track. It increases the opportunity cost
of specialization

This advancement mechanism is far from complete or ready to be
printed. It still needs some tuning and tweaks. What do you think?
Does this mechanic really have the cool properties I think it does?
Let me know in the comments, or in the Cast Discord

Thanks for reading!