+++
title = "Cash Abstraction"
date = 2020-05-05T18:14:09-05:00
draft = false
description = ""
categories = [
  "Mechanics",
]
tags = [
  "Everything",
  "TTRPGs",
  "RPGs",
  "Money",
  "Mechanics",
  "Any Game",
]
+++

It might be possible to make the Counting Beans RPG fun, but I don't
know how to do it.

<!--more-->

Instead what I know how to do is abstract money into game mechanics so
we can stop fiddling with math when we should be having fun. Below are
rules you can use in any game to determine whether a character can
afford something and whether it's available. There is also a rule for
investment.

## Abstracting affordability

We are answering a question when we count up silver and gold. "Can I
afford this?". Using this alternate rule you can answer this question
by rolling dice instead. Here is what you do.

Give each character a Cash stat. When they want to buy something they
roll a number of six sided dice equal to their Cash. If they roll a
number of 6es equal to or greater than the Price (discussed below) of
the item they can afford it, no questions asked, they walk out of the
store with the thing. This is spending within their means. If they
don't get enough 6es, they can reduce their Cash stat permanently by 1
for each 6 they want to add to the roll. This is spending beyond their
means.

This requires items to have an abstracted Price. The way that's
determined will depend on the situation to a certain extent. If you've
got a traditional GM they can set the Price. If the game has a bean
counting system and lists of the price of goods you can translate that
to a Price. Take the base denomination... say gold. Anything that
costs 0-1 gold has a Price of 1, 1-9 has a price of 2, 10-99 has a
price of 3. Another way to think of it is to take the number of digits
+ 1. Items can also be Cheap which means they are always affordable.

## Abstracting availability

If you want to introduce availability into the abstraction you can use
these slightly modified rules. First the questions we are answering
with the roles. "Is the thing I want even here?" "Can I find someone
with one to sell?" "How does the rarity of the item do to the price
I'll have to pay?"

I Abstract this in two roles. First availability. For that we'll need
to give the item a numerical Availability. This is usually going to
have to be a judgment call but an availability of 4 makes it about
50/50. Roll an number of dice equal to the items Availability and if
there are any 6es it's available, otherwise it's not. Next roll Cash
against the items Price as above but add all the dice that were 6es to
your Cash pool for this roll. Items can also be Common which means
that they are always available and that they provide 3 extra dice to
the Cash roll.

## Earning Cash

When you do something that should earn enough cash to matter, roll
Cash. If there are no ones increase Cash by one. Do this more than once
if the thing earns enough to warrant it. This is something that will
need to be a judgment call by the group or GM and should be talked
about up front for things like jobs. For instance if you get a tip
that some piece of treasure is worth quite a lot talk about how many
rolls it represents before everyone decides to go risking life and
limb for it.

## Abstracting investment

Everything so far has dealt with liquid currency. What about something
like an investment say buying property, investing in stocks or an
asteroid mining operation? to buy an investment put as much Cash as you
want into the investment. Reduce your Cash by that much. At the end of
every session roll all your investments. You can roll them all at
once. Increase any investment's value by 1 for each 6 rolled. At the
beginning of every session you may sell an investment losing the
investment but adding it's value to your Cash. Play a scene finding a
buyer and making the deal if that's interesting.