+++
title = "Introducing Quill"
date = 2020-06-05T14:09:01-05:00
draft = false
description = ""
categories = [
  "Games",
]
tags = [
  "Everything",
  "TTRPGs",
  "RPGs",
  "Quill",
  "Playtest",
]
+++

I've been working on a game for a good bit now and I want to show it
off to y'all! These are my first steps into the *Powered by the
Apocolypse (PbtA)*, *Forged in the Dark (FitD)*, small, tight,
focused, clean, zine adventure game arena.

Here's *[Quill](http://quill.porcupine.studio)*

The object of Quill is to *become powerful* by the *experience of
dangerous adventure* but you might not because the *danger is real*
and *you could fucking die*.

In this post I'm going to introduce the ideas I'm exploring in Quill
and talk a little bit about my design goals.

<!--more-->

I've taken a few things straight from the [BitD
SRD](https://bladesinthedark.com/) so the sections on judgement calls,
clocks, strain, and flashbacks might sound a little familiar and are
absolutely more polished than what I've written myself. All the
talents are PbtA moves, and the game is mostly talents.

I've given myself specific design goals and I want talk about some of
them.

## Zine friendly

This is a pretty easy one. It should be zine friendly. It should be
easy and cheap to produce, short enough to read, hackable and
expandable. I have a few strategies for this. One is to cut
aggressively keeping only the essentials and leaving everything else
to home brew content and expansion zines. Another is to keep the
hierarchy of the rules flat and reasonably independent rather than
nested. I'm also trying to use a small set of proven rules from the
games that have inspired me over adding new rules.

## It should be opinionated

I'm not looking for broad appeal with this game. I'm looking for deep
appeal from those that it appeals to starting with myself. So far this
has meant starting with my own instincts and committing to them but as
it continues to come together I'll need to keep an eye on what it is,
what it's offering, and focus on keeping that tight and clear.

## Rules that drive the game

When we play a game and a rule comes up that we have to follow, we are
taken out of the flow of a scene, we are taken out of character and
into the realm of the rules of the system. The rules then ask us to do
something. It might be to do some math, or roll some dice to see what
happens. First we'll probably talk about what we are doing in terms of
the fiction and in terms of the rules. I want all the conversation to
be about what the game is about, all the thinking to be about what the
game is about. Quill is about power, adventure, and real danger that
could fucking kill you. I want the rules to create conversation and
though about power, risks, adventure, and how all this might kill us!

When we play and the rules take us out of character, if we aren't
talking about this stuff, I need to change something.

## Minimal quick math

Something I especially don't want the game to be about is mental math
which is easy for some of us but hard for others. Any math that I can
move into times where nothing else is going on I'll do that. Between
sessions, during breaks in the action etc. The dice mechanic takes
nothing but comparing numbers, no addition or subtraction. For the
most part coming up with those numbers can be done between sessions or
during a break in the action.

## Efficient expert execution

When a group is experienced with the game, they should be able to run
it efficiently, but I won't spend a lot of effort trying to make it
particularly easy to learn or teach as long as it's still enjoyable
before you're an expert.

## Enjoyable

It should be enjoyable to read, teach, learn, and play no matter how
inefficient the group might be at executing the rules or how
inexperienced they are. I think that if I succeed in the goals of
being opinionated and having rules that drive the game, and I can
write in a clear, concise, and explicit manner this will be taken care
of.

---

Please, if you are interested, take a read through
*[Quill](quill.porcupine.studio)* and let me know what you think! Does
any of it appeal to you? Does any of it sound awful? Please let me know!

At the time of this writing Quill is in GitHub and comments, question,
and critiques are welcome there. As always feel free to reach out on
Twitter (@jessebmiller) to discuss as well.

If anyone plays it please get in touch! I'm desperate to hear how it went.

Thanks for reading!


