+++
title = "Proposition and Curation Are Sufficient for Progress"
date = 2020-05-04T19:25:37-05:00
draft = false
description = ""
categories = [
  "Design",
]
tags = [
  "Everything",
  "TTRPGs",
  "RPGs",
]
+++

Somewhere in some video somewhere John Harper gives some plain good
advice for any designer in any discipline. It goes soemthing like
this. I'm paraphrasing

> Just do the fastest thing first then look at it. It's probably good
> enough and if not, you'll be able to see what it needs

Fuck John. That's good.

I'm following it today and releasing a game that I wrote very quickly.
It's probably good enough. more on this later. First let's talk about
my drawings

<!--more-->

I draw from time to time. In my life I've done two drawings that are
very good. Each took around 15 seconds. I've done a heap of drawings,
which is easy when they are that fast, all of them are the same form,
and two of them are really very good. There are plenty of reasons that
more of them aren't very good, mainly that I don't practice
deliberately, BUT two of them really are very good!

![I hope you trust me that they are
 good.](/img/good-drawings.jpg "My two good drawings")

Over the years I've done thousands of these things, and a lot of them
are okay, but these are the two that are good. That's what I want to
talk about. Proposition and curation are sufficient for progress. I
can do one of these in 15 seconds. so I can make a lot of
propositions.  It's easy, cheap. I've curated that list of a thousand
to get here, progress, good art

My design advice is this. Make a lot of propositions. Make them
cheaply. Make them fast. Curate them ruthlessly. How can we curate
ruthlessly in roleplaying game design? By publishing early, fast,
free, playing the game, getting feedback, making a change and
publishing again. Do the fastest thing and look at it with your
audience

To take my own advice, I designed a game this morning. I was reading
Vincent Baker on fictional positioning, got an idea, and and wrote
this game. I think it might be pretty good, but I need to look at it,
with you. Games are a lot harder to look at than drawings. I think you
kinda have to play them. Maybe a lot of people have to play them and
then talk about it. So here is my invitation. Please play this game
and talk to me about it

I present [Unreliable Narrator](https://docs.google.com/document/d/122aIEYRXpW5q092TFNQoWyc3pUfhxzSL9qobyARgqmI)

If you read it or play it *please* let me know on twitter
[@jessebmiller](https://twitter.com/jessebmiller). If you want to play
let's play! I'm up for it

Thanks for reading!

